this screencast will show how to add an
existing project to get and to push it
to github we're starting with a simple
Java project which has been created
using IntelliJ IDEA and is not currently
checked into any source control system
the simplest way to add version control
is by going to the VCS menu and
selecting enable version control
integration IntelliJ IDEA has
out-of-the-box support for CVS git
mercurial and subversion selecting one
of these in our case kit enables VCS
support for the project so we can start
checking versions in and out you can see
support has been added as the version
control window is now available for this
project you can also use alt and 9 or
command a 9 to bring up the VCS window
when a project has just been added to
get all of the existing files will be
unburdened because they haven't been
added yet unborn files are shown in red
by default now you can select which
files you want to add to get here we
want to leave out any of the IntelliJ
IDEA configuration files but whether you
want to check them in or not is entirely
up to you in this case because all the
files we want to leave out are in the
same directory we can group the files in
this window by directory and select
everything that isn't in the dot idea
directory to add the remaining files to
get you can drag the files into the
default change list or right click and
select add from the git menu item
now if I did all the files we want to
get we need to commit them to save their
current state we can right-click on the
change list or on the files and select
commit or we can use the ctrl K or
command K keyboard shortcut this brings
up the commit dialog we can manage this
specific commit from here we can enter a
message for the commit we can see the
files that will be committed and we can
even see the own version files that will
not be committed so we have a final
chance to add these to get if we want to
we can see a quick summary of the number
of new versions or modified files the
bottom of the dialog gives us a diff
between the file we're checking in and
the original in this case because these
are all new files the whole file is
shown in green and there's no original
to compare it to there are a number of
operations you can select to perform
before the files are committed we won't
cover these in this screencast so will
deselect them all to get the simplest
commit possible once the changes are
committed we get a pop-up message
showing us that the commit was
successful our own version files are
still shown in the window but since
we've decided not to commit these files
at all we'll create a git ignore file to
tell both git and IntelliJ IDEA to
ignore them now git integration is
enabled whenever a new file is created
in this project IntelliJ IDEA will ask
if this file should be added to get so
we don't have to manually add every new
file every time when we add the dot ADEA
directory to the git ignore file the
IntelliJ IDEA VCS window will no longer
show files from this directory let's
commit this file to since it's part of
our project
the beauty of a distributed version
control system is not only for saving
different versions of our project files
but also for sharing the project and
allowing others to work on it because
we're using git in this example let's
add this project to github from the VCS
menu we can see the import into version
control menu item has an option to share
the project on github we can use a token
or our username and password to access
github if we have two-factor
authentication enabled we'll be prompted
for our authentication code as well now
we choose a name for the github
repository and can optionally name the
remote in this case we've kept the
default origin name IntelliJ IDEA will
create the repository on github in our
account and push the project code if
this is successful a balloon
notification will let you navigate to
the project in the browser that's how to
add an existing project to get and push
it to github thanks for watching